#summary jPlurk Introduction / jPlurk 簡介
#labels Featured


= The origination of jPlurk =

jPlurk v1 is created by [http://code.google.com/u/askeing/ askeing] (about Feb, 2009). 
The motivation is that plurk's user need a tool can support a daily `plurk' 
to prevent the karma from reducing (inspiring by [http://blog.xdite.net/?p=976 xdite's karma keeping plan]). 
[http://code.google.com/u/ChingYiChan.tw/ ChingYiChan.tw] join this project later. He provides lots of design suggestion for jPlurk development. 

= The evolution of jPlurk =

The jPlurk v1 and other unofficial plurk api implement plurk function by parsing html and pretend the web browser (submiting forms, keeping cookies, etc). 
Until [http://www.plurk.com/API Plurk Official API] is released (5, Dec, 2009), we decide to renew our project to following the stardard. 
Stop the jPlurk v1 and propose the new architecture of jPlurk.

jPlurk v2 use Plurk Official API, all implementation can be found in the [http://code.google.com/p/jplurk/source/browse/trunk/com.google.jplurk/src/main/java/com/google/jplurk/action/PlurkActionSheet.java PlurkActionSheet class]. 
We use this class to map Plurk Official API and java source code. 
It keep the metadata for uri, required fields, request method, connection type. We use @Meta and @Validation to describe the functions. 
Here is the sample of getFriendsByOffset method:

{{{
@Meta(uri = "/FriendsFans/getFriendsByOffset", require = { "api_key", "user_id" })
@Validation({ @Validator(field = "offset", validator = NonNegativeIntegerValidator.class) })
public HttpUriRequest getFriendsByOffset(Map<String, String> params)
                                throws PlurkException {
                return prepare("getFriendsByOffset", params);
}
}}}

= The convention of jPlurk v2 design =

 * The nameing are almost mapping to Plurk Official API.
 * !PlurkClient will return either JSONObject or JSONArrayObject.
 * It will return null, if any excpetions raising or http status is not 200 OK.

== Read More ==

 * [jplurkV2 jPlurk v2 Quick Tutorial and Implementation State]
 * [Using_Proxy_V2 Setting Proxy for jPlurk] 
 
 